layouts/community/ortho_4x12/xyverz/readme.md, before:

# Xyverz's 4x12 Ortho Keymap

## About this keymap:

I'm moving all my 4x12s to the same keymap since I pretty much use it across all of them anyway, regardless of whether they're split or not. Gotta get the `LAYOUT` lovin', yo.

This revision includes this documentation and introduction of the individual RGB mode keys in the `ADJUST` layer.

## Still to do:

 * Update layout files to match current standards.
 * Enjoy this revision; figure out new things later.

### Qwerty layer

```
    ,-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
    | Tab  |   Q  |   W  |   E  |   R  |   T  |   Y  |   U  |   I  |   O  |   P  | Bksp |
    |------+------+------+------+------+-------------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Esc  |   A  |   S  |   D  |   F  |   G  |   H  |   J  |   K  |   L  |   ;  |  "   |
    |------+------+------+------+------+------|------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Shift|   Z  |   X  |   C  |   V  |   B  |   N  |   M  |   ,  |   .  |   /  | Shift|
    |------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Ctrl | Alt  | Left |Right |Lower | Bksp |Space |Raise |  Up  | Down |  GUI | Enter|
    `-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------'
 ```
	 
### Colemak layer

```
    ,-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
    | Tab  |   Q  |   W  |   F  |   P  |   G  |   J  |   L  |   U  |   Y  |   ;  | Bksp |
    |------+------+------+------+------+-------------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Esc  |   A  |   R  |   S  |   T  |   D  |   H  |   N  |   E  |   I  |   O  |  "   |
    |------+------+------+------+------+------|------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Shift|   Z  |   X  |   C  |   V  |   B  |   K  |   M  |   ,  |   .  |   /  | Shift|
    |------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Ctrl | Alt  | Left |Right |Lower | Bksp |Space |Raise |  Up  | Down |  GUI | Enter|
    `-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------'
 ```
	 
### Dvorak layer

```
    ,-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
    | Tab  |   "  |   ,  |   .  |   P  |   Y  |   F  |   G  |   C  |   R  |   L  |  /   |
    |------+------+------+------+------+-------------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Esc  |   A  |   O  |   E  |   U  |   I  |   D  |   H  |   T  |   N  |   S  |  -   |
    |------+------+------+------+------+------|------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Shift|   ;  |   Q  |   J  |   K  |   X  |   B  |   M  |   W  |   V  |   Z  | Shift|
    |------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Ctrl | Alt  | Left |Right |Lower | Bksp |Space |Raise |  Up  | Down |  GUI | Enter|
    `-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------'
 ```
	 
### LOWER layer

```
    ,-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
    |   ~  |   !  |   @  |   #  |   $  |   %  |   ^  |   &  |   *  |   (  |   )  |      |
    |------+------+------+------+------+-------------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Caps |      | Mute | Vol- | Vol+ |      |      |   _  |   +  |   {  |   }  |  |   |
    |------+------+------+------+------+------|------+------+------+------+------+------|
    |      |      | Prev | Play | Next |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
    |------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Brite|      | Home |  End |      |  Del |  Ins |      | PgUp | PgDN |      |      |
    `-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------'
 ```
	 
### RAISE layer

```
    ,-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
    |   `  |   1  |   2  |   3  |   4  |   5  |   6  |   7  |   8  |   9  |   0  |      |
    |------+------+------+------+------+-------------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Caps |      | Mute | Vol- | Vol+ |      |      |   -  |   =  |   [  |   ]  |  \   |
    |------+------+------+------+------+------|------+------+------+------+------+------|
    |      |      | Prev | Play | Next |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
    |------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Brite|      | Home |  End |      |  Del |  Ins |      | PgUp | PgDN |      |      |
    `-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------'
 ```
	 
### ADJUST layer

```
    ,-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
    |  F11 |  F1  |  F2  |  F3  |  F4  |  F5  |  F6  |  F7  |  F8  |  F9  |  F10 |  F12 |
    |------+------+------+------+------+-------------+------+------+------+------+------|
    |      | Reset|RGB PL|RGB BR|RGB RB|AGnorm|AGswap|Qwerty|Colemk|Dvorak|      |      |
    |------+------+------+------+------+------|------+------+------+------+------+------|
    |RGB ON| MODE |RGB SW|RGB KN|RGB GR| HUE- | HUE+ | HUE- | SAT+ | SAT- | VAL+ | VAL- |
    |------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------|
    |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
    `-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------'
 ```

Commit message:

Changes to my Ergodox & Planck keymaps (#8622)
* Changes to my Ergodox & Planck keymaps

* Fixed Typos

Corrected some typos and omissions to my Ergodox layout and readme

* Fixed Typos

Fixed some typos in my ErgoDox Readme and keymap.c files

layouts/community/ortho_4x12/xyverz/readme.md, after:

# Xyverz's 4x12 Ortho Keymap

## About this keymap:

I'm moving all my 4x12s to the same keymap since I pretty much use it across all of them anyway, regardless of whether they're split or not. Gotta get the `LAYOUT` lovin', yo.

This revision includes this documentation and introduction of the individual RGB mode keys in the `ADJUST` layer.

## What's New?
 * Added the Mac Lock macro of CMD+CTRL+Q to lock the screen on my mac.
 * Changed the location of the `pipe` and `backslash` keys to match my other layouts.

## Still to do:

 * Enjoy this revision; figure out new things later.

### Qwerty layer

```
    ,-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
    | Tab  |   Q  |   W  |   E  |   R  |   T  |   Y  |   U  |   I  |   O  |   P  | Bksp |
    |------+------+------+------+------+-------------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Esc  |   A  |   S  |   D  |   F  |   G  |   H  |   J  |   K  |   L  |   ;  |  "   |
    |------+------+------+------+------+------|------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Shift|   Z  |   X  |   C  |   V  |   B  |   N  |   M  |   ,  |   .  |   /  | Shift|
    |------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Ctrl | Alt  | Left |Right |Lower | Bksp |Space |Raise |  Up  | Down |  GUI | Enter|
    `-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------'
 ```
	 
### Colemak layer

```
    ,-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
    | Tab  |   Q  |   W  |   F  |   P  |   G  |   J  |   L  |   U  |   Y  |   ;  | Bksp |
    |------+------+------+------+------+-------------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Esc  |   A  |   R  |   S  |   T  |   D  |   H  |   N  |   E  |   I  |   O  |  "   |
    |------+------+------+------+------+------|------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Shift|   Z  |   X  |   C  |   V  |   B  |   K  |   M  |   ,  |   .  |   /  | Shift|
    |------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Ctrl | Alt  | Left |Right |Lower | Bksp |Space |Raise |  Up  | Down |  GUI | Enter|
    `-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------'
 ```
	 
### Dvorak layer

```
    ,-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
    | Tab  |   "  |   ,  |   .  |   P  |   Y  |   F  |   G  |   C  |   R  |   L  |  /   |
    |------+------+------+------+------+-------------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Esc  |   A  |   O  |   E  |   U  |   I  |   D  |   H  |   T  |   N  |   S  |  -   |
    |------+------+------+------+------+------|------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Shift|   ;  |   Q  |   J  |   K  |   X  |   B  |   M  |   W  |   V  |   Z  | Shift|
    |------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Ctrl | Alt  | Left |Right |Lower | Bksp |Space |Raise |  Up  | Down |  GUI | Enter|
    `-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------'
 ```
	 
### LOWER layer

```
    ,-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
    |   ~  |   !  |   @  |   #  |   $  |   %  |   ^  |   &  |   *  |   (  |   )  |  |   |
    |------+------+------+------+------+-------------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Caps |      | Mute | Vol- | Vol+ |      |      |   _  |   +  |   {  |   }  |      |
    |------+------+------+------+------+------|------+------+------+------+------+------|
    |      |      | Prev | Play | Next |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
    |------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Brite|      | Home |  End |      |  Del |  Ins |      | PgUp | PgDN |      |      |
    `-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------'
 ```
	 
### RAISE layer

```
    ,-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
    |   `  |   1  |   2  |   3  |   4  |   5  |   6  |   7  |   8  |   9  |   0  |  \   |
    |------+------+------+------+------+-------------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Caps |      | Mute | Vol- | Vol+ |      |      |   -  |   =  |   [  |   ]  |      |
    |------+------+------+------+------+------|------+------+------+------+------+------|
    |      |      | Prev | Play | Next |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
    |------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------|
    | Brite|      | Home |  End |      |  Del |  Ins |      | PgUp | PgDN |      |      |
    `-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------'
 ```
	 
### ADJUST layer

```
    ,-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------.
    |  F11 |  F1  |  F2  |  F3  |  F4  |  F5  |  F6  |  F7  |  F8  |  F9  |  F10 |  F12 |
    |------+------+------+------+------+-------------+------+------+------+------+------|
    |      | Reset|RGB PL|RGB BR|RGB RB|AGnorm|AGswap|Qwerty|Colemk|Dvorak|      |      |
    |------+------+------+------+------+------|------+------+------+------+------+------|
    |RGB ON| MODE |RGB SW|RGB KN|RGB GR| HUE- | HUE+ | HUE- | SAT+ | SAT- | VAL+ | VAL- |
    |------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+------|
    |      |      |      |      |      |MacLck|      |      |      |      |      |      |
    `-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------'
 ```
