## Keycode Migration PRs

Authored by fauxpark, these pull requests remove references to deprecated TMK macros that have been superseded by native QMK keycodes.


### Migrate `ACTION_LAYER_TOGGLE` to `TG()` (#8954)

Replaces calls to `ACTION_LAYER_TOGGLE`, which has been replaced by the `TG()` keycode.

Calls to keycodes that call `ACTION_LAYER_TOGGLE(layer)` can be made by calling `TG(layer)` directly as a keycode.


### Migrate `ACTION_MODS_ONESHOT` to `OSM()` (#8957)

Replaces calls to `ACTION_MODS_ONESHOT`, which has been replaced by the `OSM()` keycode, and calls to `ACTION_LAYER_ONESHOT` with `OSL()`.

Calls to keycodes that call `ACTION_MODS_ONESHOT(mod)` can be made by calling `OSM(mod)` directly as a keycode.
Calls to keycodes that call `ACTION_LAYER_ONESHOT(mod)` can be made by calling `OSL(mod)` directly as a keycode.


### Migrate `ACTION_DEFAULT_LAYER_SET` to `DF()` (#8958)

Replaces calls to `ACTION_DEFAULT_LAYER_SET`, which has been replaced by the `DF()` keycode.

Calls to keycodes that call `ACTION_DEFAULT_LAYER_SET(layer)` can be made by calling `DF(layer)` directly as a keycode.


### Migrate `ACTION_LAYER_MODS` to `LM()` (#8959)

Replaces calls to `ACTION_LAYER_MODS`, which has been replaced by the `LM()` keycode.

Calls to keycodes that call `ACTION_LAYER_MODS(layer, mod)` can be made by calling `LM(layer, mod)` directly as a keycode.


### Migrate `ACTION_MODS_TAP_KEY` to `MT()` (#8968)

Replaces calls to `ACTION_MODS_TAP_KEY`, which has been replaced by the `MT()` keycode.

Calls to keycodes that call `ACTION_MODS_TAP_KEY(mod, kc)` can be made by calling `MT(mod, kc)` directly as a keycode.
